# DXVK

A Vulkan-based translation layer for Direct3D 8/9/10/11 which allows running 3D applications on Linux using Wine.

For the current status of the project, please refer to the [project wiki](https://github.com/doitsujin/dxvk/wiki).

The most recent development builds can be found [here](https://github.com/doitsujin/dxvk/actions/workflows/artifacts.yml?query=branch%3Amaster).

Release builds can be found [here](https://github.com/JustCallMeJade/dxvk-arm64ec/releases).

## How to use
In order to install a DXVK package obtained from the [release](https://github.com/JustCallMeJade/dxvk-arm64ec/releases) 

In a Winlator Bionic container you need to go to the WCP installation tab and choose DXVK in the upper middle and select "choose file" and upload your WCP there

#### DLL dependencies 
Listed below are the DLL requirements for using DXVK with any single API.

- d3d8: `d3d8.dll` and `d3d9.dll`
- d3d9: `d3d9.dll`
- d3d10: `d3d10core.dll`, `d3d11.dll` and `dxgi.dll`
- d3d11: `d3d11.dll` and `dxgi.dll`

### Notes on Vulkan drivers
Before reporting an issue, please check the [Wiki](https://github.com/doitsujin/dxvk/wiki/Driver-support) page on the current driver status and make sure you run a recent enough driver version for your hardware.

### Online multi-player games
Manipulation of Direct3D libraries in multi-player games may be considered cheating and can get your account **banned**. This may also apply to single-player games with an embedded or dedicated multiplayer portion. **Use at your own risk.**

### HUD
The `DXVK_HUD` environment variable controls a HUD which can display the framerate and some stat counters. It accepts a comma-separated list of the following options:
- `devinfo`: Displays the name of the GPU and the driver version.
- `fps`: Shows the current frame rate.
- `frametimes`: Shows a frame time graph.
- `submissions`: Shows the number of command buffers submitted per frame.
- `drawcalls`: Shows the number of draw calls and render passes per frame.
- `pipelines`: Shows the total number of graphics and compute pipelines.
- `descriptors`: Shows the number of descriptor pools and descriptor sets.
- `memory`: Shows the amount of device memory allocated and used.
- `allocations`: Shows detailed memory chunk suballocation info.
- `gpuload`: Shows estimated GPU load. May be inaccurate.
- `version`: Shows DXVK version.
- `api`: Shows the D3D feature level used by the application.
- `cs`: Shows worker thread statistics.
- `compiler`: Shows shader compiler activity
- `samplers`: Shows the current number of sampler pairs used *[D3D9 Only]*
- `swvp`: Shows the vertex processing mode and the current number of software vertex processing shaders *[D3D9 Only]*
- `scale=x`: Scales the HUD by a factor of `x` (e.g. `1.5`)
- `opacity=y`: Adjusts the HUD opacity by a factor of `y` (e.g. `0.5`, `1.0` being fully opaque).

Additionally, `DXVK_HUD=1` has the same effect as `DXVK_HUD=devinfo,fps`, and `DXVK_HUD=full` enables all available HUD elements.

### Logs
When used with Wine, DXVK will print log messages to `stderr`. Additionally, standalone log files can optionally be generated by setting the `DXVK_LOG_PATH` variable, where log files in the given directory will be called `app_d3d11.log`, `app_dxgi.log` etc., where `app` is the name of the game executable.

On Windows, log files will be created in the game's working directory by default, which is usually next to the game executable.

### Device filter
Some applications do not provide a method to select a different GPU. In that case, DXVK can be forced to use a given device:
- `DXVK_FILTER_DEVICE_NAME="Device Name"` Selects devices with a matching Vulkan device name, which can be retrieved with tools such as `vulkaninfo`. Matches on substrings, so "VEGA" or "AMD RADV VEGA10" is supported if the full device name is "AMD RADV VEGA10 (LLVM 9.0.0)", for example. If the substring matches more than one device, the first device matched will be used.
- `DXVK_FILTER_DEVICE_UUID="00000000000000000000000000000001"` Selects a device by matching its Vulkan device UUID, which can also be retrieved using tools such as `vulkaninfo`. The UUID must be a 32-character hexadecimal string with no dashes. This method provides more precise selection, especially when using multiple identical GPUs.

**Note:** If the device filter is configured incorrectly, it may filter out all devices and applications will be unable to create a D3D device.

### Debugging
The following environment variables can be used for **debugging** purposes.
- `VK_INSTANCE_LAYERS=VK_LAYER_KHRONOS_validation` Enables Vulkan debug layers. Highly recommended for troubleshooting rendering issues and driver crashes. Requires the Vulkan SDK to be installed on the host system.
- `DXVK_LOG_LEVEL=none|error|warn|info|debug` Controls message logging.
- `DXVK_LOG_PATH=/some/directory` Changes path where log files are stored. Set to `none` to disable log file creation entirely, without disabling logging.
- `DXVK_DEBUG=markers|validation` Enables use of the `VK_EXT_debug_utils` extension for translating performance event markers, or to enable Vulkan validation, respecticely.
- `DXVK_CONFIG_FILE=/xxx/dxvk.conf` Sets path to the configuration file.
- `DXVK_CONFIG="dxgi.hideAmdGpu = True; dxgi.syncInterval = 0"` Can be used to set config variables through the environment instead of a configuration file using the same syntax. `;` is used as a seperator.
- `DXVK_SHADER_CACHE=0`: Disables the internal shader cache.
- `DXVK_SHADER_CACHE_PATH=/some/directory`: Path to internal shader cache files. By default, this will use `%LOCALAPPDATA%/dxvk` in a Windows
  or Wine environment, and `$HOME/.cache` or `$XDG_CACHE_HOME` in a native Linux environment.

### Graphics Pipeline Library
On drivers which support `VK_EXT_graphics_pipeline_library` Vulkan shaders will be compiled at the time the game loads its D3D shaders, rather than at draw time. This reduces or eliminates shader compile stutter in many games when compared to the previous system.

In games that load their shaders during loading screens or in the menu, this can lead to prolonged periods of very high CPU utilization, especially on weaker CPUs. For affected games it is recommended to wait for shader compilation to finish before starting the game to avoid stutter and low performance. Shader compiler activity can be monitored with `DXVK_HUD=compiler`.

**Note:** Games which only load their D3D shaders at draw time (e.g. most Unreal Engine games) will still exhibit some stutter, although it should still be less severe than without this feature.

## Build instructions

In order to pull in all submodules that are needed for building, clone the repository using the following command:
```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/JustCallMeJade/dxvk-arm64ec.git
```

### Requirements:
- [wine 10.0](https://www.winehq.org/) or newer
- [Meson](https://mesonbuild.com/) build system (at least version 0.58)
- [LLVM toolchain] (https://github.com/mstorsjo/llvm-mingw) compiler
- [glslang](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/glslang) compiler

### Building DLLs

#### The simple way
Inside the DXVK directory, run:
```
./build.sh
```

This will create a dxvk WCP so you can install it
